#####Chapter 2:

# Randomness and Deterministic Machines

Computers are deterministic machines. Per definition, they cannot produce randomness without any external inputs. Once this external input is given, Computer Science has found different methods to generate random numbers. We distinguish between true random number generators (RNG) and pseudo-random number generators (PRNG). You can use a PRNG if your random generator does not need any security guarantees. For example, if you are programming a simple coin-flipping game that you want to use daily to decide between two options, you can use a PRNG like JavaScripts Math.random(). It uses computational algorithms to produce apparently random results. These results are entirely depending on an initial seed. So if the seed is known, the same result can be reproduced.

This might work for prototypes and many practical applications. But imagine you want to encrypt a message. You would use a public key to encrypt the message and only the private key could decrypt it. The private key needs to be created at some point. Public key cryptography uses random numbers as input to calculate and create key pairs. If your source of randomness is something like Math.random(), it will be far more feasible for an attacker to guess your private key by brute-forcing the “random” numbers which is produced by this function. In other words, it drastically reduces the search space for the attacker. And the more they know about your conditions, the easier it is for them to find the correct private key as they have to search through fewer options.

Luckily, there are also true random number generators that we can use. They usually rely on measuring physical phenomena like atmospheric noise. It uses a natural source of entropy to avoid any brute-force attacks. This is critical to generating random numbers. Unpredictability is an essential requirement for true random number generators. Unpredictable means no one can reproduce the result by taking the same system as an input. So you cannot simply measure the same atmospheric noise to produce similar results. They will be completely different. So the quality of entropy becomes a fundamental metric. Once this is given, there are different tools to translate this into random numbers.
